you know what i find flattering
if i don't upload a video for about two
days
people write and asking are you okay
i upload so regularly so often more than
once a day
just just a couple days go back like hey
man what's going you doing all right
i printed out a letter from a member of
the audience i can't remember the last
time i did a video with
anything written down on paper and he
asks
isn't it the case that these days
society is becoming
more and more sexualized and that human
sexuality is being
more and more commercialized i made a
video discussing this
more than a year ago in response to
ashley eliza aka
turtleneck sweater girl who has since
she was incredibly famous and incredibly
successful you've made a lot of money
now she's deleted her entire web
presence and she's even sent me emails
asking me to delete my videos commenting
on her which i'm not gonna do
roll it and the thing is about hook up
culture it's not having a sex with like
a lot of people
it's having sex without meaning just
like doing it with random people because
nowadays people are actually having less
sex
gets more just casual it seems like
today with all the hookup apps reliable
contraceptives
and a general culture that just promotes
casual sex
it's really just becoming the norm it's
almost like a weird thing if you choose
not to engage in casual sex with people
it's like who are you you're some sort
of prude you're some sort of like weirdo
[Music]
[Applause]
and then you have a bunch of other
articles saying you have to figure out
what you like
in order to figure out what you like and
like having sex you have to have sex
with a lot of people
and i mean my question to that is why do
you have to have sex with a lot of
people in order to figure out what you
like
like wouldn't it just be weird to barely
know someone and then want to try some
like
insane thing you want to i don't know
tmi
no judgment just my opinion what i mean
to suggest to you
in opening the video with that clip is
that it is
very very easy to have this self-serving
delusion
that whatever social and political
problems we're encountering
are new to our own age the particular
epoch we have to be living through
or getting worse during the epoch we
happen to be living through and
you know i'm not someone who recommends
that people
read books lightly i don't waste
people's time
and i take into consideration the
position of the particular reader very
carefully
this is 27 year old man who has a
university degree in the sciences
he probably has not done the type
of historical reading that would make
him reluctant
to make this sort of statement or raise
this sort of question okay you think we
have a society
that overly commercializes and
commodifies sex
today how about the 1820s
how about the 1820s in the south of
france
like i remember reading a lot of
academic studies about the history of
prostitution and sexual exploitation in
southeast asia
because i used to do a lot of research
related to cambodia laos thailand etc
and one of the most important things to
point out was oh
oh if you think this is bad do you know
what was going on in marseille
the assumption that what was going on in
east asia especially in relation to
european colonialism
you know was this highly exotic highly
illicit you know
boundary breaking immoral trade in
comparison to what was going on europe
was really was really false
it's very easy to bring in this kind of
um
unequal and unfair comparison so in this
case he's saying and
i understand 27 years old this is the
this is the world he
lives in and this is the transformation
he's lived through quote sex is
being widely used to promote products
and commercials
on billboards etc in popular culture
right i remember going to
the national portrait museum in england
sorry i forget
one of the big major art galleries
in england that doesn't really matter
which one i was in and you know
it was pointed out that there were a
whole lot of paintings of young women
selling flowers and they ain't selling
flowers
you know there was this convention in
portrait painting of a young woman
selling flowers and this was
a culturally acceptable way to depict
prostitutes there's a sense
in which sex is commodified
by beer commercials but they're using
sex to sell beer
right they're not using beer
to sell sex which is what you're going
to find
in the 19th century the 18th century the
17th century the 16th century the 15th
century the 14th century the 12th
if you read any historical literature
from any prior
epoch of history right you're going to
start to realize
the depth and breadth of the
commodification of sex
in different cultures at different
periods of time by the way
even including traditional islamic
cultures i've done a lot of research on
the history of slavery
melissa's currently reading a book about
the history of slavery in muslim
central asia which i haven't looked at
yet i'd love to read it
if and when i get time and whenever you
look into this
and of course it's also just partly the
the searing hypocrisy
of the history of the muslim world but
yes you know uh prostitution
commodification of of of sex even within
traditional
muslim cultures century by century is
shocking and appalling
the history of sexual exploitation in
china
pre-modern traditional china you know
it's
very easy to go from childhood to
adulthood
in any given decade in any given century
and to have the impression oh this is
something new this is something that's
gotten worse
during my lifetime just now no the
problem is you went from the naive or
jejune perspective
of a child to the cynical perspective of
a human being this guy's 27
it's probably just in the last 10 years
he really started learning about this
stuff and
and perceiving it and realizing deeply
how it fits society
how it ruins some young women's lives in
some young men's lives and you know the
effects it hasn't it's all
and he's not thinking how is this really
different from
the 20th century the 19th century the
18th century and how is it different
from again history of italy
so the france history of thailand
history of japan
talk about storied histories of of
prostitution right
so what's really remarkable about our
century as is shown in that short clip i
showed we're living through a period of
people having
less and less real sex
and what's being commodified is
simulation right so i i i sympathize
obviously i don't think this is a stupid
letter i don't think he's asking bad
questions
i don't think he has bad intentions i
don't think he's being raised for bad
reasons i just think you have to
recontextualize the whole discourse
about the commodification of of
sexuality and how it's being transformed
by
information technology communication
technology uh so on and so forth
so he says you know through popular
culture such as sitcoms movies music
including nicki minaj
have you read shakespeare dead serious
i'm stone cold serious like
you know what do you think of the
commodification of sex in that whole
society
as indicated by recorded by shakespeare
in his plays
in his sonnets and the the just the
ubiquity
of of prostitution in that society
that's attested to throughout
it's this is not something new that just
came out of nowhere
and again by the way there's also
literature written from a female
perspective right
and they're interestingly too some
feminist historians are just in this
the history of women's advocacy for new
laws
restricting prostitution right very
often those reflect
the the woman's experience that women
really were concerned about their
husbands going and sleep with procedures
that part of the public demand
for restrictive laws which today most
feminists regard negatively
part of it did come from women women
really did struggle to
control their husbands during long long
centuries when reckless behavior of this
kind was
was common and it is documented and i
think i can go so far to say
i don't have to recommend any particular
book
the autobiography of napoleon bonaparte
napoleon lost his virginity
with a prostitute he felt no shame in it
he wrote about it
autobiographically published this
publicly and
he went on to advocate for prostitution
being completely legalized
deregulated and you know throughout the
french empire he says nowadays you can
flick through tinder profiles with the
expectation that somewhere down the line
you will get a match can you okay so
again
i i've used tinder i've known you right
i mean what you get on tinder is a is a
glittering
image is a mirage is an illusion
right and those 19th century portraits
of a girl
selling flowers you know you get the
girl
not just the flower that's what's being
bought and sold right
the history of the commodification of
sexuality and just the reality
of meeting people face to face and
believe me i don't glorify any of this
culture
in a beer hall in a tavern at an inn
again this is deep in every culture i
know of even the cultures where
alcohol was illegal like uh traditional
muslim culture
no i mean what you get on tinder
is nothing you know and i know
people are drawn into it he talks about
the gamification of romance i understand
that there's that
it's like gambling right why do people
keep uh putting
coins into a slot machine because
there's a one in a thousand chance or a
one in a million chance they're going to
get
something out of it right but don't you
realize how many gamblers will put in
the coin and pull the lever and we'll
never get anything at all
we can certainly ask that about tinder
about this whole generation of
dissimulated
uh internet information technology based
uh
sexuality right so he then says only
fans the website only fans
comes like you said selling intimacy
but it's not right it's selling a false
promise
of intimacy it's selling dissimulated
intimacy it's selling you
you know text messages from someone
pretending to know you
pretending to care about you pretending
to be your girlfriend not
somebody actually being your girlfriend
i mean so
look i'm very much engaged in the
critique of video games
but i can't criticize video game
violence
as if it were real violence i can ask
people
why do you want to spend like six hours
at a time
watching a video simulation of shooting
a person in the head
again and again and again some of these
games you see someone get shot in the
head every 60 seconds
you know why do you want to do that i
think there are things worth
philosophizing about worth reflecting on
right
but this is nothing like the question of
why did you decide to volunteer or to
fight in a war in syria
and actually see someone get shot in the
head maybe you see someone get shot in
that every six months
in real combat you know maybe maybe not
even that they're guys that go into
combat and spend the whole time carrying
backpacks
up and down the side of the hill again
read more books you can read some read
people's autobiographies of what war is
like for a lot of people it's
it's not that eventful but my point is i
can't conflate these things
i can't question the morality of
simulated violence
as if it's the morality of real violence
and i can't question the morality of
simulated sexuality
as if it's real sexuality or real
relationships or even real
flirtation as i already showed in that
short clip there are some statistics
indicating
that younger people not really young
people but
you know people who are younger than old
they're actually having less and less
sex
as the years go by and in a sense we all
know why right we all know what it is
young people do with their time now and
what it is they're not doing
and probably some of us have a sigh of
relief that people aren't living the
same way they did
in the 16th century in the 17th century
in the 18th century
and maybe in some ways we're terrified
that we've lost touch with
uh some of that animal reality of what
it is to be a human being
you know in the in the 21st century he
says quote i hope i'm not suffering
cognitive dissonance but i'd like to
think that as a rule of thumb
people are better off not objectifying
themselves
and not engaging in promiscuity or
polygamy
but i constantly get overwhelmed from my
more left-leaning friends
with the answer quote what's wrong with
it
if it's not hurting anyone close quote
all of this
transpires or unfolds in the context of
the kind of person you could be
what you might be doing with your time
who you might
become right how would you feel if you
had a
25 year old male friend who had never
lost his virginity and you told him to
just give up
and pay a prostitute and lose lose his
virginity
to a prostitute how would you feel if
you had an 18 year old female friend
who said she's sick and tired of working
at mcdonald's or at a pizza restaurant
and you told her to
give up and become a prostitute what is
it we're giving up on
right giving up on ourselves we're
giving up
on our own potential to do something
else with our lives
right to lead some kind of meaningful
life it's very slippery
i don't have a simple 100 percent
opposition to prostitution i've
mentioned this many many times
i remember being on the border between
cambodia and laos
and meeting a guy who had his face caved
in by a gunshot wound
and just realizing when i met this guy
that's not what we talked about we did
have a conversation in cambodia believe
it or not
this guy had not had any reconstructive
surgery his face was just caved
in by a bullet and he survived he kept
on living with it he kept on coping with
it
and i just realized wow you know in this
culture
no woman is ever going to touch this guy
nobody woman is ever going to sleep with
this guy he's going to have no love
or romance's life if it's not you know
through prostitution and that was a
culture
where prostitution was ubiquitous
prostitution was everywhere
they had prostitution in small towns
that didn't have any electricity or any
running water you know what i mean um
you know and just
sorry i knew a lot of people involved in
charity work related to
people who were born disabled and also
people who had become disabled through
car accidents through sometimes through
warfare through stepping on a land mine
it's the you know glorified cause you
know those people matter too
right and look maybe even within your
own family
maybe you've got a cousin or a brother
or someone maybe they're mentally
disabled maybe they're physically
disabled
there are all kinds of people where i
can't say to you
that you know their celibacy is worth
something
positive or that they should live and
die their whole lives as a virgin let's
even say hypothetically
rather than you know getting involved
with prostitution with
you know the sex trade and becoming
becoming clients i can't make that claim
because i don't believe in
christianity i don't believe in some
positive value to ignorance i don't
believe in some positive value
you know maintaining your virginity
right
but um want to have young women
right to me as soon as i have
middle-aged women
write to me in response to my many many
videos talking about the only fans
phenomena uh and you know they asked the
question
in effect you know shouldn't there be
a more meaningful life than this for a
good-looking young woman who has the
option
who has the opportunity to just cash in
on her appearance
on offense you know what i say back is
um
couldn't you try you know
maybe there isn't you know maybe there
is really
nothing more meaningful for life in this
life for you
than getting unonly fans and wearing a
bikini and exploiting your body and
supporting your friends
but but i doubt it right couldn't you
try
and if you failed right like if you
tried to have
some kind of more meaningful life
whether that's through career
education the arts poetry
music i don't know if you tried to have
some more meaningful life than just
sexually exploiting yourself
and you failed and it didn't work out
at least you have the satisfaction of
that failure
and that very process of trying and
failing
would i think in a really meaningful way
change who you are inform who you are it
would be part of becoming
you know the person you you wanted to be
that's one of the pieces
of advice i could give to somebody the
other side of that a young man who feels
completely crestfallen that he's never
gonna fall in love that he's never gonna
have a
romance or he's never even gonna lose
his virginity that he's on tinder
you know swiping through this stuff and
you know if some young man said to me
that he feels like just giving up and
sleeping with prostitutes becoming with
the
part of the commercialized side of it
you know you know what
you could give up later right it's never
going to be too late
to give up right you could try you could
try to do something positive you could
try to have a more meaningful life
you could really earnestly try and if
you fail
right at least you would have that
development of your character
you'd have something that comes you know
uh from that failure
okay so look
there's a difference between living in a
city where more and more people
are being shot to death and living in a
city
where the proliferation of video camera
technology
means that more and more of the
shootings are captured on film
shared on the internet and discussed in
the news
there's a difference between living
through a period of time
in which people are actually having more
sex or which people are actually
commodifying sex to a greater extent and
living through a period of time
when the proliferation of introduction
technology communication technology
the cheapness of cameras simply records
it better
shares it better makes us more aware of
these options
[Music]
maybe we can we can practice
yes